A redone coding assessment creating a shopping cart for various items with codes, names, and prices.

This assessment displays a web page that renders a "Flowers" and "Seeds" table, which pull lists of products from my local database in "flowers" and "seeds" table respectively. This could have been streamlined by instead pulling all products from the database in each table and iterating through an associative array of Product Type => Product Array and drawing a table based on each type, but doing each table individually allowed me to utilize functions in each Product class extension. This allowed me to further show inheritance and OOP principles.

Each product entry has a number field to enter the amount of the associated product, and each product table has a button to add the entered products to the cart. Pressing the add button sends the user to an intermediary page, modify_cart.php, which reads the post data from the main page and alters the cart respectively, such as adding, removing, or clearing the cart, before redirecting the user back to the index.

The cart is stored in the user's session in an associative array of type Product Code => Quantity so that I can pull each unique item and its respective quantity in an iterable array format. The cart allows for multiple methods to be called statically, which acts as an interface to the session's cart values. Products can be added and removed, the cart can be completely cleared, and various totals can be calculated and retrieved from the Cart class. Notably, the contents of the carts get retrieved and used to display a table, showing their quantity and calculated price based on the products price in the database.

The cart table also has buttons to individually remove an entire product's quantity from the cart, as well as a button to completely clear the cart. These redirect the user to modify_cart.php to perform these operations before being returned here.

Finally, a table gets rendered to show various totals from the cart, including the subtotal, any applicable discounts, the shipping fee, and the overall total. The subtotal is simply each item in the cart's price multiplied by the quantity of that item in the cart. Discounts get represented by a table in the database, "coupons", which lists coupons that have a required product and quantity to receive the discount. They also have a flag to denote if the coupon gets applied multiple times, such as with the BOGO 50% Red Flowers deal. This gets returned as an array with type Coupon Name => Discount Price to be displayed in the table contextually. The shipping fee takes into the account the subtotal and discounts, and the overall total calculates it all together.